# External Access Setup

## Cloudflare Tunnel

> **IMPORTANT**: Cloudflare Tunnel is NOT secure! Avoid exposing sensitive technical or personal data in unencrypted traffic directly via CT.

The purpose of Cloudflare Tunnel is that our home server can always be found even if the ISP provided IP address changes. For how it works refer to [this](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/).

Due to that traffic is transparent to cloudflare servers, we will mostly use it to expose public facing web frontends, and to provide the correct IP address for our secure VPN setup to go through.

## Wireguard VPN
> **Note**: Port forwarding does not work with LTE connected cellular hotspot. Hotspot internet cannot be used as a VPN server.

We will use Wireguard as a secure connection method to actually connect to our Proxmox cluster. In this guide we will use, as example, LAN router ip address 192.168.1.1 and wireguard port 8020.

Login into the OpenWRT router via SSH (refer to the OpenWRT guide):
```
ssh -o HostKeyAlgorithms=+ssh-rsa -o PubkeyAcceptedKeyTypes=+ssh-rsa root@192.168.1.1
```

Install wireguard:
```
opkg update && opkg upgrade
opkg install luci-proto-wireguard luci-app-wireguard kmod-wireguard wireguard-tools
```

Modify the firewall rules, add to ```/etc/config/firewall``` the following:
```
config redirect
	option target 'DNAT'
	option name 'wireguard'
	list proto 'udp'
	option src 'wan'
	option src_dport '8020'
	option dest 'lan'
	option dest_ip '192.168.1.1'
	option dest_port '8020'

```

Now we will generate the private and public keys for wireguard:
```
umask 077 && wg genkey > /root/wireguard_private_key
cat /root/wireguard_private_key | wg pubkey > wireguard_public_key
```

Use the OpenWRT interface - in Network > Interface, create a new interface with the WireGuard protocol. Set the following:
* name: wg0
* IP address: 10.14.0.1/24 (this is in the special reserved IP range, generally used for VPNs)
* port: 8020
* private key: use the content of the generated wireguard_private_key file
* zone (in the Firewall Settings): LAN

We can save and apply. It's time to verify that it works. We will use the WireGuard app on a phone to verify. On the phone set the interface as follows:
* name: home
* public key: generate one from the app
* address: any IP in the 10.14.0.0 range, i.e. 10.14.0.5/32
* DNS server: any public DNS server, i.e. 8.8.8.8

Add our WireGuard server as a peer:
* public key: use the content of the generated wireguard_public_key file
* allowed IPs: 0.0.0.0/0,::0
* endpoint: look up the public IP address of the home router

We also need to add the phone as a peer on our router. In the OpenWRT interface, edit the wg0 interface we created and add a peer:
* public key: the generated key from the phone's WireGuard app
* allowed IPs: use the IP used to set up the phone's app, i.e. 10.14.0.5/32

